# Cryptography
In simple terms, a cryptocurrency is a digital form of money that is used as a medium of exchange within a distributed network of users. Unlike traditional banking systems, these transactions are tracked through a public digital ledger (the blockchain) and may occur directly between the participants (peer-to-peer) without the need for intermediaries.

'Crypto' refers to the cryptographic techniques used to secure the economic system and to ensure that the creation of new cryptocurrency units and the validation of transactions go smoothly.

Although not all cryptocurrencies are mineable, the many that, like Bitcoin, are reliant on the process of mining, have a slow and controlled growth of their circulating supply. Therefore, mining is the only way to create new units of these coins and this avoids the risks of inflation that threat the traditional fiat currencies, where a government is able to control the money supply.



## Subheading
Bitcoin is the first cryptocurrency ever created and is, naturally, the most famous one. It was introduced in 2009 by pseudonymous developer Satoshi Nakamoto. The main idea was to create an independent and decentralized electronic payment system based on mathematical proofs and cryptography.

Despite being the most well-known, Bitcoin is not alone. There are many other cryptocurrencies, each with its own particular features and mechanisms. Furthermore, not all cryptocurrencies have their own blockchain. Some were created on top of an already existing blockchain, while others were created completely from scratch.

As most cryptocurrencies, Bitcoin has a limited supply, which means that no more Bitcoins will be generated by the system after the max supply is reached. Although this varies from project to project, the max supply of Bitcoin is set to 21 million units. Usually, the total supply is public information that is defined when the cryptocurrency is created. You can check the circulating supply and Bitcoin Price on Binance Info.

The Bitcoin protocol is open source and anyone can review or copy the code. Many developers around the world contribute to the development of the project.